Oshift how add domains proxy whitelist (#403)
UKCloud/documentation: articles/openshift/oshift-how-add-domains-proxy-whitelist.md

---

> title: How to permit outbound access to internet hosts in deployments with public services network connectivity | UKCloud Ltd

Reviewer: By public services network do you mean the PSN or more generally government community networks?

> description: Outlines methods to securely permit access to internet hosts in v3.11 OpenShift clusters deployed with public services network connectivity.

Reviewer: Same as above re public services network

services: openshift
author: Ben Bacon
toc_rootlink: How To
toc_sub1: 
toc_sub2:
toc_sub3:
toc_sub4:

> toc_title: Permit outbound internet access in deployments with public services network connectivity

Reviewer: Same as above re public services network

toc_fullpath: How To/oshift-how-add-domains-proxy-whitelist.md
toc_mdlink: oshift-how-add-domains-proxy-whitelist.md
---

> # How to permit outbound access to internet hosts in deployments with public services network connectivity

Reviewer: Same as above re public services network

## Overview

> This article outlines the necessary steps to whitelist domain names within Squid proxy. Squid is an enabled service within v3.11 OpenShift clusters deployed with connectivity to public sector networks (such as: HSCN, PSN-A, Janet). Whitelisted domains can be accessed on the Internet via the proxy enabling you to request external resources/data on nodes that previously only had connectivity to public sector networks.

Reviewer: Change to "within the Squid proxy"?
Now that the PSN has been flattened, you should probably just refer to PSN rather than PSN-A
Lowercase i for internet
Comma between proxy and enabling: ... via the proxy, enabling you to request ...

## Prerequisites

> To complete the steps in this guide, you must have access to a cluster which is running OpenShift Container Platform v3.11 (or newer) with connectivity to a public services network. Squid proxy is not currently enabled within environments that do not have access to a public services network.

Reviewer: Change to "to a cluster that is running"

You must also have access to either:

> - the OpenShift Web console

Reviewer: Add an empty line between bullet points otherwise it doesn't render properly in the generated HTML

- `oc`, the OpenShift command-line client (CLI). For more information, see OpenShift's [*Get Started with the CLI*](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/3.11/cli_reference/get_started_cli.html)

## Destination domain whitelist

> Squid proxy is installed as a service on the control plane load balancers. Within the Squid configuration, we have specified an ACL (Access Control List) as being a list of destination domains (present in a file on the filesystem) which herein we will refer to as the whitelist. Outbound traffic from the cluster's internal network will pass through the proxy with the destination domain being compared against the whitelist for each connection attempt; if the domain exists then outbound Internet traffic is permitted, otherwise it is denied with a HTTP 403 error.

Reviewer: Make file system two separate words
I think you need hereafter rather that herein, or use simpler language, such as "which we will refer to as the whitelist for the rest of this article". (put a comma before the which in either case)
Lowercase i for internet

Author: Should it not be uppercase I seeing as it is a noun?

Reviewer: Company standard is to use a lowercase i for internet

> A scheduled job (which runs at 0 minutes past every hour) on the OpenShift cluster Bastion host reads a Config Map named `proxy-whitelist` within the `whitelist` project. If there are any modifications to this Config Map; the job overwrites the previous custom entries within the whitelist and triggers a reconfigure task on the Squid proxy to enable the updated domains to be accessed.

Reviewer: comma instead of a semicolon after Config Map

### Assigning non cluster-admin users rights to edit the whitelist 

> By default, only users who have been assigned the cluster-admin role will be able to view/edit the `proxy-whitelist` ConfigMap within the `whitelist` project. If you wish to allow non cluster-admin users to edit this object, below are some RBAC (Role Based Access Control) commands to authorise a user to do so:

Reviewer: Use want instead of wish

>[!TIP]

> >To add multiple users to these roles, simply space delimit multiple usernames within the username variable

Reviewer: Suggest:
To add multiple users to these roles, separate each username within the `username` variable with a space.

> ```bash

Reviewer: add an empty line above this

export username=<replace-with-username>
# Create roles
oc create role view-project --verb=get,list,watch --resource=namespaces --verb get --resource=projects -n whitelist
oc create role get-configmap --verb=get,list --resource=configmaps -n whitelist
oc create role edit-proxy-whitelist --verb=patch,update --resource=configmaps --resource-name=proxy-whitelist -n whitelist
# Bind roles to desired user
oc policy add-role-to-user view-project $username -n whitelist --role-namespace='whitelist'
oc policy add-role-to-user get-configmap $username -n whitelist --role-namespace='whitelist'
oc policy add-role-to-user edit-proxy-whitelist $username -n whitelist --role-namespace='whitelist'
```
### Modifying the whitelist

> There are two tools which can be used to modify the `proxy-whitelist` Config Map. As previously stated you will need to have the necessary rights to edit this object within the `whitelist` project. 

Reviewer: Suggest:
There are two tools you can use to modify ...

#### Web console

> 1. To view the `proxy-whitelist` Config Map within the `whitelist` project, navigate to the following URL (ensuring you replace \<your-deployment-name>): `https://ocp.<your-deployment-name>.cna.ukcloud.com:8443/console/project/whitelist/browse/config-maps/proxy-whitelist`

Reviewer: Might make it easier to read if you put the url on a new line.

> ![whitelist ConfigMaps](images/oshift-proxy-configmap.png)

Reviewer: Add an empty line above this

>[!TIP]

> >To whitelist all subdomains, precede the domain with a `.` e.g. `.domain.com`

Reviewer: use for example instead of e.g.

> 2. Click `Actions` followed by `Edit` to modify the values within the `proxy-whitelist.txt` key. Each domain should be on its own line:

Reviewer: Use "then" instead of "followed by"

> ![Edit proxy-whitelist](images/oshift-proxy-editproxywhitelist.png)

Reviewer: Add an empty line above this

> 3. Click `Save` when finished

Reviewer: Use bold formatting (**) instead of code formatting (`) for button names

#### oc client

> >[!NOTE]

Reviewer: Add an empty line above this

> >To authenticate using the `oc` client you will need an API token. Retrieve this by logging in to the Web Console and clicking your name in the top right; choosing `Copy Login Command`. This can then be pasted from your buffer into a terminal where you have the `oc` client installed.

Reviewer: Use bold formatting (**) instead of code formatting (`) for menu option names

1. Change to the `whitelist` project: 
   
   ```bash
   $ oc project whitelist
   ```
2. Edit the `proxy-whitelist` Config Map:

   ```bash
   $ oc edit cm proxy-whitelist
   ```

   This will display the object definition in yaml format in your default text editor:

   ```
   # Please edit the object below. Lines beginning with a '#' will be ignored,
   # and an empty file will abort the edit. If an error occurs while saving this file will be
   # reopened with the relevant failures.
   #
   apiVersion: v1
   data:
     proxy-whitelist.txt: ""
   kind: ConfigMap
   metadata:
     creationTimestamp: 2019-01-18T01:18:44Z
     name: proxy-whitelist
     namespace: whitelist
     resourceVersion: "5385199"
     selfLink: /api/v1/namespaces/whitelist/configmaps/proxy-whitelist
     uid: ff7df4a9-1abe-11e9-965a-fa163ecc60e0
   ```

>    Within the object definition data attribute is the `proxy-whitelist.txt` key. By default this will be an empty single line string but you can modify this to be a multi-line string by changing `""` to `|-` as below and indenting the domains you wish to add with two spaces. For example:

Reviewer: Make this step 3

   ```
   proxy-whitelist.txt: |-
     firstdomain.com
     .seconddomain.com
   ```

>    Save your changes to persist to the Config Map, otherwise cancel your edit to not make any changes.

Reviewer: Make this step 4

## Further reading

https://wiki.squid-cache.org/SquidFaq/SquidAcl

## Feedback

> If you have any comments on this document or any other aspect of your UKCloud experience, send them to <products@ukcloud.com>.

Reviewer: Update this to the latest feedback information:

If you find an issue with this article, click **Improve this Doc** to suggest a change. If you have an idea for how we could improve any of our services, visit [UKCloud Ideas](https://ideas.ukcloud.com). Alternatively, you can contact us at <products@ukcloud.com>.

---
title: How to permit outbound access to internet hosts in deployments with government community network connectivity | UKCloud Ltd
description: Outlines methods to securely permit access to internet hosts in v3.11 OpenShift clusters deployed with government community network connectivity.
services: openshift
author: Ben Bacon
toc_rootlink: How To
toc_sub1: 
toc_sub2:
toc_sub3:
toc_sub4:
toc_title: Permit outbound internet access in deployments with government community network connectivity
toc_fullpath: How To/oshift-how-add-domains-proxy-whitelist.md
toc_mdlink: oshift-how-add-domains-proxy-whitelist.md
---

# How to permit outbound access to internet hosts in deployments with government community network connectivity

> ## Overview

Reviewer 2: We should add something in the overview to point out that this shouldn't be done lightly and should be included in any security documentation that is submitted to relevant authorities for accreditation or something along those lines anyway.

This article outlines the necessary steps to whitelist domain names within the Squid proxy. Squid is an enabled service within v3.11 OpenShift clusters deployed with connectivity to government community networks (such as: HSCN, PSN, Janet). Whitelisted domains can be accessed on the internet via the proxy, enabling you to request external resources/data on nodes that previously only had connectivity to government community networks.

## Prerequisites

To complete the steps in this guide, you must have access to a cluster that is running OpenShift Container Platform v3.11 (or newer) with connectivity to a government community network. Squid proxy is not currently enabled within environments that do not have access to a government community network.

You must also have access to either:

- the OpenShift Web console

- `oc`, the OpenShift command-line client (CLI). For more information, see OpenShift's [*Get Started with the CLI*](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/3.11/cli_reference/get_started_cli.html)

> ## Destination domain whitelist

Reviewer 2: There should be something in this section stating the defaults that are enabled to allow the cluster to function (this should just be registry.access.redhat.com or something I think?). Stating that this access cannot be revoked as its required for container builds etc.

Squid proxy is installed as a service on the control plane load balancers. Within the Squid configuration, we have specified an ACL (Access Control List) as being a list of destination domains (present in a file on the file system), which we will refer to as the whitelist for the remainder of this article. Outbound traffic from the cluster's internal network will pass through the proxy with the destination domain being compared against the whitelist for each connection attempt; if the domain exists then outbound internet traffic is permitted, otherwise it is denied with a HTTP 403 error.

A scheduled job (which runs at 0 minutes past every hour) on the OpenShift cluster Bastion host reads a Config Map named `proxy-whitelist` within the `whitelist` project. If there are any modifications to this Config Map, the job overwrites the previous custom entries within the whitelist and triggers a reconfigure task on the Squid proxy to enable the updated domains to be accessed.

### Assigning non cluster-admin users rights to edit the whitelist 

> By default, only users who have been assigned the cluster-admin role will be able to view/edit the `proxy-whitelist` ConfigMap within the `whitelist` project. To allow non cluster-admin users to edit this object, use the following Role Based Access Control (RBAC) commands:

Reviewer 2: I think we should have a comment here indicating the power that this is giving to individual users - e.g. to be able to enable access cluster wide to new resources. Effectively an administrative function, we want people to think before they grant this access, it shouldn't be handed out to all cluster users.

Reviewer 2: This wasn't quite what I meant - I was meaning that giving a non-admin the rights to alter the whitelist was in effect giving them significant cluster-wide control and should be carefully considered. Rather than talking about granting cluster-admin rights which you've talked about here.  We definitely should talk about principle of least privilege and not handing our rights, but this should be in the security best practice we need to do for the ITHC outcomes.

By default, the following domains are added to the whitelist (and cannot be removed) to facilitate installation, testing and ongoing operation of the cluster:
```
registry.access.redhat.com
registry.redhat.io
<UKCloud Object Storage Endpoint>
<UKCloud SSO Endpoint>
```

A scheduled job (which runs at 0 minutes past every hour) on the OpenShift cluster Bastion host reads a Config Map named `proxy-whitelist` within the `whitelist` project. If there are any modifications to this Config Map, the job overwrites the previous custom entries within the whitelist and triggers a reconfigure task on the Squid proxy to enable the updated domains to be accessed.

### Assigning non cluster-admin users rights to edit the whitelist 

> By default, only users who have been assigned the cluster-admin role will be able to view/edit the `proxy-whitelist` ConfigMap within the `whitelist` project. It is possible to grant non cluster-admin users rights to edit this object but this should be done with careful deliberation. The ability to access hosts on the internet, from nodes that previously only had access to government community networks, exposes the cluster to additional risk (should a domain be whitelisted that hosts malicious content for example). For this reason, only trusted users should be permitted to determine these domains to reduce the risk of a malicious domain being unwittingly added.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, only users who have been assigned the cluster-admin role will be able to view/edit the `proxy-whitelist` ConfigMap object within the `whitelist` project. It is possible to grant non cluster-admin users rights to edit this object but this should be given careful consideration. The ability to access hosts on the internet, from nodes that previously only had access to government community networks, exposes the cluster to additional risk (should a domain be whitelisted that hosts malicious content for example). For this reason, only trusted users should be permitted to determine these domains to reduce the risk of a malicious domain being unwittingly added.
```

## Overview

> This article outlines the necessary steps to whitelist domain names within the Squid proxy. Squid is an enabled service within v3.11 OpenShift clusters deployed with connectivity to government community networks (such as: HSCN, PSN, Janet). Whitelisted domains can be accessed on the internet via the proxy, enabling you to request external resources/data on nodes that previously only had connectivity to government community networks. Added domains should be scrutinised as the relevant authority of the community network may require you to submit documentation regarding these for you to receive accreditation.

Reviewer 2: I'm happy with the general gist of this. @suehighmoor or @stevedicko may want to review it too though.

Squid proxy is installed as a service on the control plane load balancers. Within the Squid configuration, we have specified an ACL (Access Control List) as being a list of destination domains (present in a file on the file system), which we will refer to as the whitelist for the remainder of this article. Outbound traffic from the cluster's internal network will pass through the proxy with the destination domain being compared against the whitelist for each connection attempt; if the domain exists then outbound internet traffic is permitted, otherwise it is denied with a HTTP 403 error.

> By default, the following domains are added to the whitelist (and cannot be removed) to facilitate installation, testing and ongoing operation of the cluster:

Reviewer 2: This is good - but actually we should really rationalise this list in our code (and then this documentation too) - there shouldn't be a need for docker, rubygems or github except for our testing, and its perfectly reasonable for us to add these, test and then remove. I'd also like us to be more specific about the ukcloud one and make it the specific endpoints. If the customer wants to open those up, then that's within their power - but opening up all of github and docker by default and the customer not being able to remove them doesn't seem justifiable.

Author: Rationalised domains (having tested a deployment with a reduced number) and removed non-necessary ones

```
registry.access.redhat.com
registry.redhat.io
.ukcloud.com
.docker.io
.docker.com
.rubygems.org
.github.com
```

A scheduled job (which runs at 0 minutes past every hour) on the OpenShift cluster Bastion host reads a Config Map named `proxy-whitelist` within the `whitelist` project. If there are any modifications to this Config Map, the job overwrites the previous custom entries within the whitelist and triggers a reconfigure task on the Squid proxy to enable the updated domains to be accessed.

### Assigning non cluster-admin users rights to edit the whitelist 

> By default, only users who have been assigned the cluster-admin role will be able to view/edit the `proxy-whitelist` ConfigMap within the `whitelist` project. Granting a user cluster-admin rights should be done with great consideration as you should always enforce the [principle of least privilege](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Principle_of_least_privilege). To allow non cluster-admin users to edit this object, use the following Role Based Access Control (RBAC) commands which abide by this principle:

Reviewer 2: This wasn't quite what I meant - I was meaning that giving a non-admin the rights to alter the whitelist was in effect giving them significant cluster-wide control and should be carefully considered. Rather than talking about granting cluster-admin rights which you've talked about here.  We definitely should talk about principle of least privilege and not handing our rights, but this should be in the security best practice we need to do for the ITHC outcomes.

Author: Amended to better reflect danger of giving rights to a non-admin user

Author: Simplified language
